*{TBD: This is a draft template that Community or Business Groups MAY
choose to use for their Group Charter. You may edit your charter to
remove or change the text provided here. Community Groups SHOULD have
charters as a way to build shared understanding within a group about
activities, and to attract new participants who appreciate a clear
description of the group\'s scope and deliverables.}*

*{TBD: The charter sections below include notes (marked with ï¿½{TBDï¿½)
on what to include and recommended text. Please remember to remove the
notes in your specific charter.}*

# \[DRAFT\] [*{TBD: name}*] Community Group Charter

[*{TBD: remove next sentence before submitting for approval}*]
This Charter is work in progress. To submit feedback, please use
[*{TBD:GitHub repository URL}*] Issues where Charter is being
developed.

-   This Charter: [*{TBD: URI}*]
-   Previous Charter: [*{TBD: URI}*]
-   Start Date: [*{TBD: date the charter takes effect, estimate if not
    known. Update this if the charter is revised and include a link to
    the previous version of the charter.}*]
-   Last Modifed: [*{TBD: If the system does not automatically provide
    information about the date of the last modification, it can be
    useful to include that in the charter.}*]

## Goals

[*{TBD: describe the mission and goals of the Community Group. This
should be a brief description describing the reason the group has been
formed.}*]

## Scope of Work

*{TBD: Describe topics that are in scope. For specifications that the CLA
patent section applies to, it is helpful to describe the scope in a way
that it is clear what types of technologies will be defined in
specifications, as opposed to adoption by reference or underlying
technology not defined in the proposed spec. Key use cases are often
helpful in describing scope. If no specifications will be defined in the
group that the CLA patent section applies to, the charter should clearly
state that. A clear scope is particularly important where patent
licensing obligations may apply.}*

### Out of Scope

*{TBD: Identify topics known in advance to be out of scope}*

## Deliverables

### Specifications

*{TBD: Provide a brief description of each specification the group plans
to produce. Where an estimate is possible, it can be useful to provide
an estimated schedule for key deliverables. As described below, the
group may later modify the charter deliverables. if no specifications,
include: \"No Specifications will be produced under the current
charter.\"}*

### Non-Normative Reports

The group may produce other Community Group Reports within the scope of
this charter but that are not Specifications, for instance use cases,
requirements, or white papers.

### Test Suites and Other Software

*{TBD: If there are no plans to create a test suite or other software,
please state that and remove the following paragraph. If Github is not
being used, then indicate where the license information is. If GitHub is
being used link to your LICENSE.md file in the next paragraph.}*

The group MAY produce test suites to support the Specifications. Please
see the GitHub LICENSE file for test suite contribution licensing
information.

## Dependencies or Liaisons

*{TBD: List any significant dependencies on other groups (inside or
outside W3C) or materials. }*

## Community and Business Group Process

The group operates under the [Community and Business Group
Process](https://www.w3.org/community/about/process/). Terms in this
Charter that conflict with those of the Community and Business Group
Process are void.

As with other Community Groups, W3C seeks organizational licensing
commitments under the [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement
(CLA)](https://www.w3.org/community/about/process/cla/). When people
request to participate without representing their organization\'s legal
interests, W3C will in general approve those requests for this group
with the following understanding: W3C will seek and expect an
organizational commitment under the CLA starting with the individual\'s
first request to make a contribution to a group
[Deliverable](#deliverables). The section on [Contribution
Mechanics](#contribution-mechanics) describes how W3C expects to monitor these
contribution requests.

The [W3C Code of Ethics and Professional
Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/) applies to participation
in this group.

## Work Limited to Charter Scope

The group will not publish Specifications on topics other than those
listed under [Specifications](#specifications) above. See below for [how
to modify the charter](#amendments-to-this-charter).

## Contribution Mechanics

Substantive Contributions to Specifications can only be made by
Community Group Participants who have agreed to the [W3C Community
Contributor License Agreement
(CLA)](https://www.w3.org/community/about/process/cla/).

Specifications created in the Community Group must use the [W3C Software
and Document
License](http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2015/copyright-software-and-document).
All other documents produced by the group should use that License where
possible.

*{TBD: if CG doesn\'t use GitHub replace the remaining paragraphs in this
section with: \"All Contributions are made on the groups public mail
list or public contrib list\"}*

Community Group participants agree to make all contributions in the
GitHub repo the group is using for the particular document. This may be
in the form of a pull request (preferred), by raising an issue, or by
adding a comment to an existing issue.

All Github repositories attached to the Community Group must contain a
copy of the
[CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/w3c/licenses/blob/master/CG-CONTRIBUTING.md)
and [LICENSE](https://github.com/w3c/licenses/blob/master/CG-LICENSE.md)
files.

## Transparency

The group will conduct all of its technical work in public. If the group
uses GitHub, all technical work will occur in its GitHub repositories
(and not in mailing list discussions). This is to ensure contributions
can be tracked through a software tool.

Meetings may be restricted to Community Group participants, but a public
summary or minutes must be posted to the group\'s public mailing list,
or to a GitHub issue if the group uses GitHub.

## Decision Process

If the decision policy is documented somewhere, update this section
accordingly to link to it.

This group will seek to make decisions where there is consensus. Groups
are free to decide how to make decisions (e.g. Participants who have
earned Committer status for a history of useful contributions assess
consensus, or the Chair assesses consensus, or where consensus isn\'t
clear there is a Call for Consensus \[CfC\] to allow multi-day online
feedback for a proposed course of action). It is expected that
participants can earn Committer status through a history of valuable
contributions as is common in open source projects. After discussion and
due consideration of different opinions, a decision should be publicly
recorded (where GitHub is used as the resolution of an Issue).

If substantial disagreement remains (e.g. the group is divided) and the
group needs to decide an Issue in order to continue to make progress,
the Committers will choose an alternative that had substantial support
(with a vote of Committers if necessary). Individuals who disagree with
the choice are strongly encouraged to take ownership of their objection
by taking ownership of an alternative fork. This is explicitly allowed
(and preferred to blocking progress) with a goal of letting
implementation experience inform which spec is ultimately chosen by the
group to move ahead with.

Any decisions reached at any meeting are tentative and should be
recorded in a GitHub Issue for groups that use GitHub and otherwise on
the group\'s public mail list. Any group participant may object to a
decision reached at an online or in-person meeting within 7 days of
publication of the decision provided that they include clear technical
reasons for their objection. The Chairs will facilitate discussion to
try to resolve the objection according to this decision process.

It is the Chairs\' responsibility to ensure that the decision process is
fair, respects the consensus of the CG, and does not unreasonably favour
or discriminate against any group participant or their employer.

## Chair Selection

Participants in this group choose their Chair(s) and can replace their
Chair(s) at any time using whatever means they prefer. However, if 5
participants, no two from the same organisation, call for an election,
the group must use the following process to replace any current Chair(s)
with a new Chair, consulting the Community Development Lead on election
operations (e.g., voting infrastructure and using [RFC
2777](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2777)).

1.  Participants announce their candidacies. Participants have 14 days
    to announce their candidacies, but this period ends as soon as all
    participants have announced their intentions. If there is only one
    candidate, that person becomes the Chair. If there are two or more
    candidates, there is a vote. Otherwise, nothing changes.
2.  Participants vote. Participants have 21 days to vote for a single
    candidate, but this period ends as soon as all participants have
    voted. The individual who receives the most votes, no two from the
    same organisation, is elected chair. In case of a tie, RFC2777 is
    used to break the tie. An elected Chair may appoint co-Chairs.

Participants dissatisfied with the outcome of an election may ask the
Community Development Lead to intervene. The Community Development Lead,
after evaluating the election, may take any action including no action.

## Amendments to this Charter

The group can decide to work on a proposed amended charter, editing the
text using the [Decision Process](#decision-process) described above. The
decision on whether to adopt the amended charter is made by conducting a
30-day vote on the proposed new charter. The new charter, if approved,
takes effect on either the proposed date in the charter itself, or 7
days after the result of the election is announced, whichever is later.
A new charter must receive 2/3 of the votes cast in the approval vote to
pass. The group may make simple corrections to the charter such as
deliverable dates by the simpler group decision process rather than this
charter amendment process. The group will use the amendment process for
any substantive changes to the goals, scope, deliverables, decision
process or rules for amending the charter.
